# credit-risk-classification
## Task background
In this Challenge, you’ll use various techniques to train and evaluate a model based on loan risk. You’ll use a dataset of historical lending activity from a peer-to-peer lending services company to build a model that can identify the creditworthiness of borrowers.


## Analysis report
#### Overview
* The purpose of this analysis is to train and evaluate machine learning models based on loan risk in order to identify the creditworthiness of borrowers.
* The focus in the data (CSV) file is the loan status column. The features in the financial data that are used to predict loan status (outcome) are loan size, interest rate, borrower income, debt to income ratio, number of accounts, derogatory marks and total debt.
* For the target values of loan_status there are two variables which I have tried to predict from this whole dataset. The first set of variables have a value of '0' (value count of 75036) for healthy loans. The second set of variables have a value of '1' (value count of 2500) and these are high-risk loans.
* For the model testing we separated all observable data with its results, which made the outcome data separate from the machine learning process. 
* Basic process includes spliting the data into training and testing, creating a regression model, fiting this to the training data, making a prediction based on this, creating a confusion matrix and classification report to anaylse the results.

#### Results
* The accuracy score is 99% which means model works very well to predict loan outcomes!
* Healthy loans have ideal precision and f1 scores at 100%.
* High-risk loans' have only 85% precision (15% lower than healthy loans). 
* This model has a recall score of 99% for the healthy loans and 91% for the high-risk loans. The scores imply that for all the instances where the loans were actually healthy, 99% of the times they were classified correctly (true positives). However, for all the instances where the loans were actually high-risk, they were classified correctly only 91% of the times.

#### Summary
* It is important to predict both the ones and zeros in order to determine a the creditworthiness of borrowers. Being able to compare the two allows for well-rounded predictions and conclusions to be made.
* If the goal is to predict healthy loans, this model should be immediately implemented due to 100% precision and 99% accuracy in predicting the outcome. If the goal is to predict high risk loans, the model should be further imporved before using it as a prediction tool because the precision was only 85% and discerning potential high-risk loans is of most importance because those accounts are responsible for the majority of the institituions profit/loss potential and managing this well can create a more significant impact on the institutuon than healthy loans.
* Overall, I would recommend this linear regression model should be implemented by the lending company to predict the creditworthiness of borrowers for healthy loans, because it has over 99% accuracy.

## Dependencies
* Jupyter Notebook
* CSV file
* scikit-learn
* Numpy
* Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

